# DNS 101

## What is DNS?

- **DNS:** The Domain Name System (or DNS) converts human readable domain names (like: www.google.com) into Internet Protocol (IP) addresses (like: 173.194.39.78).

- IP addresses come in two different forms
    - IPv4 (32 bit i.e., over 4 billion address)
        - IPv4 is running out. IPv6 was created to answer
    - IPv6 (128 bit i.e., over 3.4*10^22)

For a sense of magnitude, if each IP address is a grain of sand, all IPv4 addresses would fill a dumptruck, all hte IPv6 addresses would fill the sun. 

## Top Level Domains

- **Top-level domain (TLD:)** refers to the last segment of a domain name, or the part that follows immediately after the "dot" symbol. TLDs are mainly classified into two categories: generic TLDs and country-specific TLDs. Examples of some of the popular TLDs include .com, .org, .net, .gov, .biz and .edu.

- **Second-level domain:** (SLD or 2LD) is a domain that is directly below a top-level domain (TLD). For example, in example.com, example is the second-level domain of the .com TLD.

## Domain Registrars

Because all names in a given domain name must be unique, there must be a way to organize them and ensure that they are unique.  **Domain Registrars** fill that need.

- **Domain Registrar:** an authority that can assign domain names directly under one ore more top-level domains.  These domains are registered with InterNic, which enforces teh uniqueness within a top-level domain.  Examples: Amazon, GoDaddy.com, Namecheap.com

## DNS Record Components

- **Start of Authority Record (SOA):**
    - The name of the server that supplied data for the zone
    - The administer of the zone
    - The current version of the data file
    - The default TTL (time-to-live) file on resource records

- **Name Server Records (NS Records)** Used by top level domains to direct traffic to Content DNS server, which contains authoritative DNS records.

- **A Record:** Fundamental type of DNS record.  The "A" stands for "Address".  Used by a computer to translate the name of a domain to an IP address.

- **TTL (time-to-live):** the length of time (in seconds) that a DNS record is cached on either a Resoling Server or the users own PC.  Lower TTL means change propagate faster through the internet

- **CName (Canonical Name):** Can be used to resolve one domain name to another. i.e., http://m.acloud.guru or http://mobile.acloud.guru could map to the same domain. Unlike Alias Records it cannot be used on a naked domain (i.e., domains missing the `www` or `mobile` or `m`, etc.).

- **Alias Records:** Alias records are used to map resources sets that are configured as websites.  THey work similar to CNAME record that you cna map one DNS name (www.example.com) to another 'target' DNS name (elb1234.elb.amazonaws.com).  

## Route 53 - Exam Tips

- ELBs do not have a pre-defined IPv4 addresses; you resolve them using a DNS name.
- Understand the difference between an Alias Record and a CNAME
- Given the choice, always choose and Alias Record over a CNAME
- Common DNS TYpes
    - SOA Records
    - NS REcords
    - A Records
    - CNAMES
    - MX Records
    - PTR Records
